Research on "Maine Coon Cats"

Maine Coon cats have been know for their loving nature and their beauty. These cats have been in high demand all over the world for
past couple of years, therefore making them the most popular cat breed in the world. This breed of cats is very ancient where their
original ancestry has been untraceable. The recent records approve that they were brought to America back in 1700-1800's, where they
first landed in Maine. In 1985, Maine announced these Coon cats as their official state cat. They are the models of the cat world
whereas, they are also considered as the dogs of the cat world. Due to their loyalty, affection, intelligence, etc., such traits make
them unique compared to the other cats. As loving as these creatures are, they have health problems as they get older which will be
briefly discussed in this document.

These cats are very big compared to domestic cats; the male cats could weigh in between 15 to 25 lbs and  the female cats
weigh ranges in between 10 to 15 lbs. They are often mistaken for Persian cats majority of the time mainly due to their big eyes and
thick fur. These cats come in many colors, and with unique eye features. Due to their thick fur, these cats could easily survive
harsh winters as they are naturally born to survive any harsh weather except for heavy sun. The paws of these cats are designed to
walk on snow and their ears are very furry in order to protect them from temperature drops as well as water. These cats are easy to
train and it is easy for humans to gain their trust. These cats have no problem interacting with stranger cats, humans, dogs, or any
other animal. They are also referred to as "gentle giants" due to their loving nature. These cats are very vocal as they produce many 
interesting sounds in order to interact with humans or any other animal; they are most likely to respond back to the humans as they
endeavor to communicate with them.

As they gained the title of "best cat", they do have some health issues as they get older. These cats could develop allergies from
plastic bowls, therefore, feeding them from steel or glass bowls is essential. One of the unique features of the Maine coon cats is
that the ones which  inhabit in New England have one or more extra toes compare to the American cats. Though one with the one or more
toes behave the same as the regular Coon's, yet they are known to run faster than the cats with regular toes due to the pressure
points in their toes, thus, have the tendency of getting tired sooner. For the older Coon cats, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is
the most common disease which they most commonly suffer from. Their cause of death is usually from HCM which eventually causes their
heart to fail. Since these cats have a shape of a rectangle, their hind legs eventually produce blood clots in their arteries,
therefore, causing a heart attack.

Given all the ups and downs, these cats are one of the lovable creatures nature has created. These cats take care of children and are
loyal to their owners where they seek affection all their lives. Due to their kittenish features, even when they mature, they usually
get mistaken for looking young as they come forward for petting. These cats have no hesitation connecting with any other living being
as long as they are not a threat to them. Due to their popularity in this modern world, they are very expensive to buy. In the end, as
long as they are alive, it is garunteed that they would always be loyal to their owners.
